# Longest-Common-Subsequence 
LCS has usage in a variety of industries, including bioinformatics, file comparison, database query optimization, speech and picture recognition, and DNA sequence alignment. In biological applications, comparing the DNA of two or more distinct organisms is frequently necessary. Adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymine are bases that make up a DNA strand. A strand of DNA can be expressed as a string over the discrete set "A, C, G, T," with each of these bases being represented by its first letter. Identifying the longest common subsequence (LCS) between sequences is NP-hard. In bioinformatics, this is a crucial issue for DNA sequence alignment and pattern recognition. Pattern discovery is a technique used in bioinformatics to identify patterns among DNA sequences of interest that may indicate that they are biologically related to one another (e.g., similar biological functions). LCS plays a crucial role in identifying patterns among sequences by determining the length of the longest common section between two sequences. Although efforts have been made to find patterns, algorithms appear to be experiencing performance constraints as sequence lengths increase. Additionally, as next-generation sequencing technologies are developed, the amount of sequence data is growing quickly, necessitating algorithms with the shortest execution times. In this context, parallel algorithms can be extremely important. The LCS is used in some recent algorithms to compress genome resequencing data. High-performance compression tools were designed exclusively for genomic data in projects such as the 1000 genome project and the 1001 genomes project where the enormous volume of genetic data and its storage and transmission were common problems. Sequence comparison, gene recognition and RNA structure prediction are some common examples of dynamic programming.
